In this lecture, I will show different
examples of different models and
how asking a different question or
a wrong question might actually get you to
the wrong recommendation or prescription.
This is why in prescriptive analytics
it's very important to understand
how the actions actually affect
the goal that we're trying to maximize.
So what we've covered so far is what
are goals, what are actions, and
what are models, okay?
And we've seen how several examples
in which changing the model,
but using the same data,
impacts the recommended action.
We've seen that sometimes we
recommend the lower price, let's say,
to maximize the quantity sold.
Sometimes we recommend the higher
price to maximize the revenue sold.
And sometimes we recommend an even higher
price to maximize the profits generated,
mostly because the cost range reduced.
And it is very,
very important to ask the right question.
What are we trying to maximize, and what
our consumers are doing in this market?
Now let's see a few examples.
The first example I would like to discuss
is the competition between two different
firms.
So, the question is did we assume anything
in the previous analysis that would not
apply to a case of competitive firms and
when there is a competing product that
can take market share from our product?
And the answer is, yes, we did.
We assumed that if we
are changing the price,
the consumers behave according
to that demand model that we've
described from the data, but we didn't
say if other companies might also
reciprocate with a lower price,
or maybe a higher price.
But in reality, if we lower the price,
wouldn't the competitor
also lower the price?
And then the question,
what do we need to do in response?
If the competitor lowers the price
a little bit below us, and
all of the consumers go and
buy that competitor's product,
should we lower the price even
a little bit below that consumer?
If we do that, that competitor
will also lower their price, and
we will lower the price, and then when we
lower the price, we will get a price war].
And actually the profit will be eroded and
maybe the profit will be zero.
What I've just described,
which is my company is responding to the
competitor's company, and the competitor's
company is responding to my price change,
this is called strategic interaction.
And this is what the field of game theory
typically handles and tries to solve.
Another problem I'm going
to introduce now, and
in the next lecture I'm going to
show you some details about it.
So let's take a look at how
Online Advertising works on the web.
Basically these are the websites
that you all browse, too.
These are all of the online ads that you
see, the pop-ups, the ads that chase
you and follow you after you put
a product in the shopping cart.
And what companies can do when they show
you these ads, they need to make a choice,
do they show the ads to you, or do they
show the ads to a different consumer?
And also what they can do is,
they can say,
I wanna show one consumer the same ad but
on multiple websites.
If this consumer visits Yahoo.com and
eBay.com and Amazon.com and
CNN.com, I'm gonna show the same
ad to the same consumer,
and these ads are gonna
chase this consumer.
Now because it is very,
very hard to tell if those ads actually
impacted the consumer's decision to buy
a product, what companies do is they
do something called attribution.
At the end of the process, they try to
measure what was the impact of each ad
on the consumer's decision to purchase.
One simple way to do that is to say,
did the consumer click the ad?
If consumers click the ads more,
probably the ad have more impact.
And what companies are trying to measure
is something called click-through rate,
which is, basically,
if I showed this ad to 100 consumers,
how many of them are gonna
actually click the ad?
And this ratio of the number of consumers
that clicked to the number of consumers
that have seen the ads is actually
the click-through rate of the ad.
So let's see an example.
What you see in this graph is basically
how advertisers analyze data online.
What they say is, they say,
I'm gonna show these ads
to the same consumer on different
Channels or different websites.
On the x-axis you'll see
is the number of Channels that
showed an ad to the same consumer.
So some consumers have seen 0 ads,
just didn't see any ads.
Some consumers have seen 1 ad, some
consumers have seen ads on 2 websites,
some consumers have
seen ads on 3 websites.
And on the left hand side,
we see the click-through rate.
What is the probability or
the percentage of consumers that
actually clicked on the ad?
So if you see no ads,
you don't click on ads.
That's great, that's perfect.
And it will appear from this
analysis that if you show more and
more ads to the consumers on different
website,s they click more and more ads.
The probability of clicking goes higher,
which would imply
that actually those ads become more and
more impactful the more ads you show.
In the next lecture, what I will show
you is how you can analyze this data,
and try to understand does
this model make sense?
Does showing more and
more ads to a consumer actually increase
the probability of them clicking the ads?